---
toc: true
layout: post
description: ""
categories: []
image: images/standout/intro.png
title: ""
---

Everyone at one point in there careers had to start at the bottom. Even the most successful data scientists were new and at one point in time. Your first data scientist job can be overwhelming. It is no longer only about analyzing data and creating models but collaborating and solving business problems that require a different toolset. From a technical standpoint, there are three main components of knowledge required to solve a business problem, the data science knowledge, domain or business knowledge and technical knowledge. The data science background information is easy to come by with a multitude of resources available on the web and in books. There is also a wide variety of courses from online to post secondary degrees and certificates. Domain knowledge comes from experience and time working in the field. Lastly, technical knowledge is one that you can gain easily at home, all you need is a computer.

I am not talking about the technical knowledge such as learning Python or using a new library. I'm referring to the technical knowledge that will help make you more efficient at collaborating and solving business problems. These are skills that every data scientist should have but ones that are not taught as part of a data science course. In this post I will go over 3 skills that will help you get ahead and stand out as a new data scientist.

Assume already know data science knowledge
Domain knowledge will come with time
General skills that every data scientist should know but it's not taught
Knowing these will make you more efficient as a data scientist especially when it comes to debugging
Being able to collaborate, navigate a unix computer, know where and how to access your data
While the other new data scientists will always be asking for help, you will already know this info won't have the same road blocks.
This will help you stand out compared to other data scientists

## Know more Git than Commit & Push

The first skill is knowing how to use Git effectively in a team environment and not just `git commit -a "my commit"` & `git push`.

### What is Git?


### The Git Takeaway

At the very least you should know the 3 basic commands to add your code to a repository:

1. `git add` to add your changes.
2. `git commit` to commit your changes.
3. `git push` to push your changes to the remote repository.

While this is all you need for personal projects, you need a lot more than this to successfully use Git when collaborating with teams. One problem that often arises is when you and a co worker make changes to the same lines of code. This is known as a merge conflict. The easiest way to resolve a merge conflict is using an IDE like VSCode. To resolve a merge conflict you will have to go through each conflict in all of the affected files and choose who's changes you want to keep, yours or the incoming changes made by your team. 

- [ ] Insert merge conflict pic

Writing good pull requests
Making good pull requests
Git reference

## Navigating a UNIX System via the Command Line
Searching for files
Searching for text in files
Getting file sizes
Directory sizes
Listing files
Environments

## What and Where your Data is 

## Conclusion

## Feedback

As always, I encourage any feedback about my post. You can e-mail me at sidhuashton@gmail.com or leave a comment on the post if you have any questions or need any help.

You can also reach me and follow me on Twitter at [@ashtonasidhu][1].



[1]:	https://twitter.com/ashtonasidhu